Tutorial: How to query Supabase in PostHog (#9099)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/supabase-query.md

---
title: How to query Supabase in PostHog
date: 2024-08-01
author:
 - ian-vanagas
tags:
 - data warehouse
---

> Combining your app and analytics data is a powerful way to understand your product. Supabase is a popular choice for handling that app data, as it provides a database, auth, storage, and more all-in-one.

Reviewer: I think "database" sounds more right, even though supabase is technically more things. When I first read "app data", it wasnt clear to me what it was 
```suggestion
Combining your database and analytics data is a powerful way to understand your users. [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) is a popular choice for handling that app data, as it provides a database, auth, storage, and more all-in-one.
```

Because Supabase is built on Postgres, we can link and query it in PostHog using our data warehouse. This tutorial shows you how to do that and provides some example insights you can create with the data afterward. 

## Linking Supabase data to PostHog

To start, you need both a Supabase and PostHog account. Once you have those, head to PostHog's [data warehouse tab](https://us.posthog.com/data-warehouse) and:

> 1. Click **Link source.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Link source.** (or **Manage sources** if you've previously added a source)
```

2. Choose the **Postgres** option by clicking **Link.**
3. Go to your Supabase project settings and under configuration, click **Database.**

> 4. Fill out the PostHog data warehouse link fields with your Supabase data.

Reviewer: This was confusing for me. I think we should first tell people to go to supabase and copy this data, and then go to posthog. It should read better this way, and involve less switching between apps

Author: This would require going to Supabase first copying a selection of data on the database page to somewhere and then copying those individual pieces of data to PostHog. 

It requires a lot of manual copying and pasting but I think this is the best way.

```sql
with sb_users as (
    select email, last_sign_in_at, created_at
    from supabase_postgres_users
    where paid = true
),
big_events as (
    select count(*) as event_count, distinct_id
    from events
    group by distinct_id
)
select email, last_sign_in_at, created_at, event_count
from sb_users
left join big_events on big_events.distinct_id = sb_users.email
```

If your payment details were on another table, you could also join that table.

### Querying observability stats

Supabase also captures observability data we can query if you link the `pg_state_statements` table from the `extensions` schema. 

An example of a query you could get from this is p95 total execution time along with the median rows read:

```sql
SELECT 
    quantile(0.95)(total_exec_time) AS p95_exec_time,
    median(rows) AS median_rows_read
FROM sb_stats_postgres_pg_stat_statements
```

Another example is the most time-consuming queries:

```sql
SELECT 
    query,
    total_exec_time,
    calls,
    rows
FROM sb_stats_postgres_pg_stat_statements
ORDER BY total_exec_time DESC
LIMIT 10
```

> One more for good luck, this gets queries with high variability:

Reviewer: lol nice
